# 04b [Pair] Database granular data access

**Type**: Work in pairs. Switch role between exposee and integrator. 

**Hand-in**: The hand-in is individual for the mandatory. While this is a pairwise project, the pairs should not end up with the same files.

---

## Granular Data Access

Access control could be part of the assignment but the end-goal is to achieve granularity in accessing the smallest possible unit of data.

Setting up roles and granting them permissions for write/read/both is part of the process but we are focused on the data.

In order to achieve this, a database must be selected that allows for the most granular access to data as possible.

---

## Working in pairs

Switch role between exposee and integrator. 

There is a Teams channel in the System Integration room called `Without_a_pair`. Use this channel to find a partner.

### Exposee

Create a page that documents a way to access the data. It must contain all necessary information for the integrator to connect to the database.

Since the integrator integrates at the database level, any API code is redundant. It's a no-code assignment.

### Integrator

Connect to the database and try to manipulate the data. Do also try to write to tables/collections you aren’t allowed to.

If the documentation is insufficient then help your partner by telling them to add the necessary information in the documentation rather than getting this information over private messages. 

You are not allowed to write any code. Connect through a database CLI.
 
---

## Do it again

Switch roles between exposee and integrator. Work independently. Absolutely do not sit together and solve the assignment. Agreeing on a database that both use is a bad omen.

---

## Requirements

**Access**: The exposee can choose to deploy the database, create a Docker image or HTTP tunnel. There's no requirement regarding keeping the database hosted for the exam. That’s why thorough documentation and screenshots is important for the exam. 

**Granularity**: There must be data that the integrator:

- Cannot read
- Can only read
- Can read and write

Remember that the end-goal is to achieve granularity in accessing the smallest possible unit of data.

There are no requirements regarding choice of database but given the constraint regarding granular access part of the assignment is to research and choose well. The more granular the better! There **are** wrong choices here. Do proper research. Here are two websites that list all the possible databases: https://dbdb.io/, https://db-engines.com/en/ranking.

Having had the database course is not an advantage to suceeding at this assignment. The common pitfall is choosing a database by familiarity. It's imperative to research and choose well.

**Complete Documentation**: The Exposee's documentation must include all necessary information for integration, such as usernames and passwords. Any stranger should be able to integrate without consulting the exposee.

The Integrator should focus on verifying the Exposee's documentation's effectiveness for integration. Direct assistance or collaboration in solving the assignment is not allowed.

---

## Project Timeline and milestones

This is not a task that should be solved within the week. Split up the assignment so that:

- Week 1: Research and select an appropriate database.
- Week 2: Set up the database and start creating the documentation.
- Week 3: Send the documentation to the integrator and change the documentation according to their feedback. Also take the role as integrator for your partner, try to connect and give feedback. 

---

## For the exam

Exposee: Besides the docs given to the integrator you must also generate docs for the entire database.

Exposee: It is recommended to create a document where you note down the result of your research containing arguments for and against various databases. 

**Hand-in**: 

There will be two hand-ins in your role as:

1. **Exposee**: Documentation 
2. **Integrator**: Screenshots. 